---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Data Collection

Soarchain is developed to adhere to the highest industry standards for mobility. It employs a distributed ledger technology and relies on a decentralized network in which no entity stores or controls the data. Collected data remains in encrypted form off-chain, with just its cryptographic signatures retained on-chain. Only those entities with permission from the data's owners can access the data. 

The integrity and validity of the data is ensured by the cryptographic signatures stored on-chain. Moreover, Soarchain employs a permissioned ledger and enables private transactions. This enables the owner-approved disclosure of specific data to specific third parties. Any type of data that vehicles and road users generate can be utilized by the interested parties while preserving the privacy of the users. 

### Diagnostics and Predictive Maintenance

In the case of diagnostics, Soarchain technology could be used to collect and transmit real-time and retrospective diagnostic data both in pre-processed and raw form from vehicles, allowing for more efficient and accurate analysis of vehicle performance. This could be particularly useful for detecting and diagnosing problems before they become more serious and expensive to fix, thus saving thousands of dollars in total and increasing the vehicle's service life. 

### Connectivity Performance

Participant nodes of Soarchain are connected to each other and to the cloud through various physical layer protocols such as cellular, Wi-Fi, V2V and Bluetooth. It is very important for infrastructure providers to assess the health of their wireless networks, especially when it is serving highly-mobile nodes such as cars and other road users. Network participants can choose to monetize their connectivity data such as signal metrics, channel quality index, and many other variables that telecom operators are willing to pay for. 

### Perception/ML Data

Soarchain facilitates direct and secure access to sensor and camera data that are generated by the vehicles in its network and allow the vehicle owners to anonymously share this data to get rewarded in return. Soarchain’s novel data scaling solution can support the pre-processing, storage and sharing of large amounts of vehicle data that could include information about the environment, vehicle performance, driver behavior and more without compromising user privacy while ensuring data quality, integrity and authenticity. A reference to this data can be securely recorded and stored, ensuring that the data is immutable, traceable, and easily verifiable. Use cases for this data can range from developing new deep learning algorithms for self-driving capabilities to creating applications that monitor the conditions of the road and even creating an HD map of the environment that the vehicles have been driving in. 

### Road Conditions 

An HD map of the environment might also include an accurate and recent snapshot of the road conditions, including the severity of potholes, the amount of traffic, road works, and the presence of any obstacles that might interfere with the secure driving of the vehicles or transportation of the vulnerable road users. To ensure the accuracy of 
